{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial Baltic;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\0\blue255;\red0\0\blue0;\red0\128\0;\red255\0\0;\red255\128\0;\red128\0\128;\red0\128\128;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\b\f0\fs28 LOKA Fleet Management System\par
\b0\fs24 User Guide for Motorpool Head\par
\par
\b\fs20 Department of Information and Communications Technology (DICT)\par
\b0\fs16\par
\par
\pard\qc\b\fs24 TABLE OF CONTENTS\par
\pard\fs20\par
1. Introduction\par
2. Getting Started\par
3. Dashboard Overview\par
4. Approval Queue and Vehicle Assignment\par
5. Assigning Vehicles and Drivers\par
6. Managing Conflicts\par
7. Vehicle Management\par
8. Driver Management\par
9. Maintenance Management\par
10. User and Department Management\par
11. Reports\par
12. Frequently Asked Questions\par
\par
\b\fs24 1. INTRODUCTION\par
\b0\fs20\par
Welcome to LOKA Fleet Management System! As a Motorpool Head, you have a critical role in fleet operations. You are responsible for the final approval of vehicle requests and the assignment of vehicles and drivers. Your decisions directly impact the efficient use of government resources.\par
\par
\b Your Responsibilities:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Provide final approval for vehicle requests\par
\bullet\ Assign appropriate vehicles for each trip\par
\bullet\ Assign available drivers to approved trips\par
\bullet\ Manage vehicle fleet inventory\par
\bullet\ Manage driver records and assignments\par
\bullet\ Oversee vehicle maintenance scheduling\par
\bullet\ Manage user accounts and departments\par
\bullet\ Generate operational reports\par
\bullet\ Handle scheduling conflicts\par
\par
\b Your Access Level:\par
\b0\par
As Motorpool Head (Level 4), you can access:\par
\bullet\ All features available to Approvers\par
\bullet\ User Management\par
\bullet\ Department Management\par
\bullet\ Full fleet and driver assignment authority\par
\bullet\ Maintenance scheduling\par
\bullet\ Administrative reports\par
\par
\b\fs24 2. GETTING STARTED\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Logging In:\par
\b0\par
1. Open your web browser and go to the LOKA Fleet Management URL\par
2. Enter your registered email address\par
3. Enter your password\par
4. Click "Login"\par
\par
\b Navigation Menu:\par
\b0\par
The sidebar contains all available modules:\par
\par
\b Core Functions:\par
\b0\bullet\ Dashboard - Overview and statistics\par
\bullet\ Requests - Your own vehicle requests\par
\bullet\ Availability - Vehicle schedule calendar\par
\bullet\ Approvals - Requests awaiting your action\par
\par
\b Fleet Management:\par
\b0\bullet\ Vehicles - Fleet inventory management\par
\bullet\ Drivers - Driver management\par
\bullet\ Maintenance - Vehicle maintenance records\par
\par
\b Reports:\par
\b0\bullet\ Reports - Fleet usage and trip reports\par
\par
\b Administration:\par
\b0\bullet\ Users - User account management\par
\bullet\ Departments - Department management\par
\par
\b\fs24 3. DASHBOARD OVERVIEW\par
\b0\fs20\par
The dashboard provides a comprehensive view of fleet operations:\par
\par
\b Statistics Cards:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b My Requests\b0  - Your submitted requests\par
\bullet\ \b Pending Approvals\b0  - Requests awaiting your final approval\par
\bullet\ \b Available Vehicles\b0  - Currently available fleet count\par
\bullet\ \b Available Drivers\b0  - Drivers ready for assignment\par
\par
\b Vehicle Status Overview:\par
\b0\par
Shows distribution of vehicles by status:\par
\bullet\ Available (green)\par
\bullet\ In Use (blue)\par
\bullet\ Maintenance (yellow)\par
\bullet\ Out of Service (red)\par
\par
\b Upcoming Trips:\par
\b0\par
Shows approved trips for the next 7 days.\par
\par
\b\fs24 4. APPROVAL QUEUE AND VEHICLE ASSIGNMENT\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Accessing the Queue:\par
\b0\par
Click "Approvals" in the sidebar. You will see:\par
\par
\bullet\ \b Pending Tab:\b0  Requests that have passed department approval\par
    - Awaiting your final approval\par
    - Need vehicle and driver assignment\par
    - Badge shows count of pending items\par
\bullet\ \b Processed Tab:\b0  Requests you've already processed\par
\par
\b Request Status Flow:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Pending\b0  - Department approval stage\par
\bullet\ \b Pending Motorpool\b0  - Your stage (needs vehicle/driver assignment)\par
\bullet\ \b For Revision\b0  - Returned for corrections (you can process these too)\par
\bullet\ \b Approved\b0  - Fully approved with assignments\par
\bullet\ \b Rejected\b0  - Denied\par
\par
\b\fs24 5. ASSIGNING VEHICLES AND DRIVERS\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Reviewing a Request:\par
\b0\par
1. Click "Review" on any pending request\par
2. Review the complete trip details:\par
    - Date/time, purpose, destinations\par
    - Passenger count and list\par
    - Requested vehicle and driver (if any)\par
\par
\b Vehicle Assignment:\par
\b0\par
When you open a request for approval, you'll see:\par
\par
\bullet\ \b Requested Vehicle:\b0  The vehicle selected by the requester\par
\bullet\ \b Vehicle Status:\b0  Whether it's available, in use, or on maintenance\par
\bullet\ \b Conflict Warnings:\b0  If the vehicle is booked for overlapping times\par
\bullet\ \b Vehicle Dropdown:\b0  To select a different vehicle if needed\par
\par
\b To assign a vehicle:\par
\b0\par
1. Check if the requested vehicle is available\par
2. If there's a conflict, the system shows:\par
    - Severity (minor/moderate/severe)\par
    - Overlapping trip details\par
    - Duration of overlap\par
3. You can either:\par
    - Keep the requested vehicle if minor conflict\par
    - Select a different vehicle from the dropdown\par
\par
\b Driver Assignment:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Requested Driver:\b0  The driver preferred by requester (if specified)\par
\bullet\ \b Driver Status:\b0  Whether available, on trip, or on leave\par
\bullet\ \b Conflict Warnings:\b0  If driver has overlapping trips\par
\bullet\ \b Driver Dropdown:\b0  To select the assigned driver\par
\par
\b To assign a driver:\par
\b0\par
1. Check the requested driver's availability\par
2. Review any conflict warnings\par
3. Select the driver from the dropdown\par
4. Consider driver familiarity with routes\par
\par
\b Approval Actions:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Approve:\b0  Confirm vehicle and driver assignments, then approve\par
\bullet\ \b Reject:\b0  Deny the request with reason\par
\bullet\ \b Request Revision:\b0  Send back for corrections\par
\par
\b\fs24 6. MANAGING CONFLICTS\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Understanding Conflict Severity:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Minor (yellow):\b0  Overlap of 60 minutes or less\par
    - Can often be accommodated\par
    - Check if trips can be slightly adjusted\par
\bullet\ \b Moderate (orange):\b0  Overlap of 61-120 minutes\par
    - Requires careful consideration\par
    - May need different vehicle/driver\par
\bullet\ \b Severe (red):\b0  Overlap exceeds 120 minutes\par
    - Definitely requires alternative assignment\par
\par
\b Resolving Conflicts:\par
\b0\par
1. Click on the conflict details to see the overlapping trip\par
2. Check if both trips can use different resources\par
3. Reassign vehicle or driver as needed\par
4. Contact requesters if significant changes are needed\par
\par
\b\fs24 7. VEHICLE MANAGEMENT\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Viewing All Vehicles:\par
\b0\par
1. Go to Vehicles from the sidebar\par
2. See complete fleet inventory with:\par
    - Plate number, make, model, year\par
    - Vehicle type and capacity\par
    - Current status\par
    - Current mileage\par
\par
\b Adding a New Vehicle:\par
\b0\par
1. Click "Add Vehicle"\par
2. Enter required information:\par
    - Plate number (must be unique)\par
    - Make, Model, Year, Color\par
    - Vehicle Type (determines capacity)\par
    - Initial mileage reading\par
3. Click "Save"\par
\par
\b Updating Vehicle Status:\par
\b0\par
Vehicle status changes automatically based on:\par
\bullet\ Assigned to trip = "In Use"\par
\bullet\ Trip completed = "Available"\par
\bullet\ Maintenance scheduled = "Maintenance"\par
\par
You can manually set status to:\par
\bullet\ \b Out of Service\b0  - For vehicles temporarily unavailable\par
\bullet\ \b Maintenance\b0  - When scheduling repairs\par
\par
\b Editing Vehicle Details:\par
\b0\par
1. Click the edit (pencil) icon\par
2. Update information\par
3. Save changes\par
\par
\b Deleting a Vehicle:\par
\b0\par
Vehicles are soft-deleted (can be recovered if needed). Only delete if permanently removed from fleet.\par
\par
\b\fs24 8. DRIVER MANAGEMENT\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Viewing All Drivers:\par
\b0\par
1. Go to Drivers from the sidebar\par
2. See all registered drivers with:\par
    - Name and contact information\par
    - License number and expiration\par
    - Current status and availability\par
    - Assigned vehicle (if applicable)\par
\par
\b Adding a New Driver:\par
\b0\par
1. Click "Add Driver"\par
2. Enter required information:\par
    - Link to existing user account\par
    - License number and expiration date\par
    - Contact information\par
3. Save the driver profile\par
\par
\b Driver Status Management:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Available\b0  - Ready for trip assignment\par
\bullet\ \b On Trip\b0  - Currently driving (auto-updated)\par
\bullet\ \b On Leave\b0  - Temporarily unavailable\par
\bullet\ \b Unavailable\b0  - Cannot be assigned\par
\par
\b License Expiration Monitoring:\par
\b0\par
Regularly check driver license expiration dates. The system may show warnings for expiring licenses.\par
\par
\b\fs24 9. MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Accessing Maintenance:\par
\b0\par
Go to Maintenance from the sidebar to manage vehicle service records.\par
\par
\b Types of Maintenance:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Preventive:\b0  Scheduled regular maintenance\par
\bullet\ \b Corrective:\b0  Repairs due to issues\par
\bullet\ \b Emergency:\b0  Urgent repairs needed\par
\par
\b Priority Levels:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Low - Can be scheduled flexibly\par
\bullet\ Medium - Should be done soon\par
\bullet\ High - Important to complete quickly\par
\bullet\ Critical - Urgent, vehicle should not be used\par
\par
\b Creating a Maintenance Record:\par
\b0\par
1. Click "Add Maintenance"\par
2. Select the vehicle\par
3. Choose maintenance type and priority\par
4. Enter description of work needed\par
5. Set scheduled date (if known)\par
6. Save the record\par
\par
\b Updating Maintenance Status:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Pending\b0  - Waiting to be scheduled\par
\bullet\ \b Scheduled\b0  - Date set for service\par
\bullet\ \b In Progress\b0  - Currently being serviced\par
\bullet\ \b Completed\b0  - Work finished\par
\bullet\ \b Cancelled\b0  - Maintenance cancelled\par
\par
\b\fs24 10. USER AND DEPARTMENT MANAGEMENT\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Managing Users:\par
\b0\par
1. Go to Users from the sidebar\par
2. View all registered users\par
\par
\b User Information:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Name and email\par
\bullet\ Department assignment\par
\bullet\ Role (Requester, Approver, Motorpool, Guard, Admin)\par
\bullet\ Account status (Active/Inactive)\par
\bullet\ Last login timestamp\par
\par
\b Editing Users:\par
\b0\par
1. Click the edit icon\par
2. Update user details:\par
    - Change name or email\par
    - Reassign department\par
    - Change role\par
    - Reset password\par
3. Save changes\par
\par
\b Activating/Deactivating Users:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Toggle user status using the activation button\par
\bullet\ Inactive users cannot log in\par
\bullet\ Use for employees on leave or separated\par
\par
\b Managing Departments:\par
\b0\par
1. Go to Departments from the sidebar\par
2. View all departments\par
3. Add new departments as needed\par
4. Edit department information\par
\par
\b\fs24 11. REPORTS\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Available Reports:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Trip Reports\b0  - Complete trip history\par
\bullet\ \b Vehicle Usage\b0  - Per-vehicle utilization\par
\bullet\ \b Driver Reports\b0  - Driver performance and trip logs\par
\bullet\ \b Department Usage\b0  - Usage by department\par
\bullet\ \b Vehicle History\b0  - Maintenance and usage history\par
\par
\b Exporting:\par
\b0\par
Reports can be exported as:\par
\bullet\ PDF - For printing and official records\par
\bullet\ CSV - For spreadsheet analysis\par
\par
\b\fs24 12. FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Q: What if no vehicles are available for a trip?\par
\b0 A: Check if any maintenance vehicles can be expedited. Otherwise, reject the request with explanation or suggest alternative dates.\par
\par
\b Q: How do I handle emergency vehicle requests?\par
\b0 A: Contact department head directly. You may need to reassign vehicles from lower-priority trips.\par
\par
\b Q: Can I assign a different vehicle than requested?\par
\b0 A: Yes, you have full discretion. Consider trip requirements, passenger count, and vehicle suitability.\par
\par
\b Q: What happens when I approve a request?\par
\b0 A: The requester receives notification, vehicle is marked "reserved," and driver is notified of assignment.\par
\par
\b Q: How do I handle a driver calling in sick?\par
\b0 A: Update driver status to Unavailable. Reassign any affected trips to available drivers. Notify requesters of any changes.\par
\par
\b Q: Can I modify an approved trip's vehicle or driver?\par
\b0 A: Yes, as Motorpool Head you can override assignments for approved requests. Notify the requester of changes.\par
\par
\b Q: What reports should I generate regularly?\par
\b0 A: Weekly vehicle usage reports and monthly driver performance reports are recommended for fleet optimization.\par
\par
\par
\b\fs20 For Technical Support:\par
\b0 Contact your IT Department or System Administrator\par
\par
\b\fs16 Document Version: 1.0\par
\b0 Last Updated: February 2026\par
}
