{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial Baltic;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\0\blue255;\red0\0\blue0;\red0\128\0;\red255\0\0;\red255\128\0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\b\f0\fs28 LOKA Fleet Management System\par
\b0\fs24 User Guide for Guard\par
\par
\b\fs20 Department of Information and Communications Technology (DICT)\par
\b0\fs16\par
\par
\pard\qc\b\fs24 TABLE OF CONTENTS\par
\pard\fs20\par
1. Introduction\par
2. Getting Started\par
3. Guard Dashboard Overview\par
4. Recording Vehicle Dispatch\par
5. Recording Vehicle Arrival\par
6. Viewing Trip Details\par
7. Managing Multiple Trips\par
8. Frequently Asked Questions\par
\par
\b\fs24 1. INTRODUCTION\par
\b0\fs20\par
Welcome to LOKA Fleet Management System! As a Guard, you play a critical role in tracking vehicle movements. You are responsible for recording when vehicles leave (dispatch) and return (arrival) for approved trips.\par
\par
\b Your Role:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Track all approved vehicle trips\par
\bullet\ Record exact dispatch times when vehicles leave\par
\bullet\ Record exact arrival times when vehicles return\par
\bullet\ Add notes about vehicle condition or observations\par
\bullet\ Maintain accurate trip logs for accountability\par
\par
\b Why Your Role Matters:\par
\b0\par
Accurate time tracking helps:\par
\bullet\ Calculate fuel consumption and trip duration\par
\bullet\ Monitor driver compliance with schedules\par
\bullet\ Provide accountability for vehicle usage\par
\bullet\ Generate accurate reports for management\par
\par
\b\fs24 2. GETTING STARTED\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Logging In:\par
\b0\par
1. Open your web browser and go to the LOKA Fleet Management URL\par
2. Enter your registered email address\par
3. Enter your password\par
4. Click "Login"\par
\par
\b Accessing the Guard Dashboard:\par
\b0\par
After logging in, you will see the Guard Dashboard in the sidebar menu. Click on "Guard Dashboard" to access your main work area.\par
\par
\b\fs24 3. GUARD DASHBOARD OVERVIEW\par
\b0\fs20\par
The Guard Dashboard provides a comprehensive view of all scheduled trips:\par
\par
\b Statistics Cards (Top Section):\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Scheduled Today\b0  - Total approved trips for today\par
\bullet\ \b Pending Dispatch\b0  - Trips that haven't left yet\par
\bullet\ \b Completed\b0  - Trips that have returned\par
\par
\b Filter Tabs:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Today's Trips\b0  - All approved trips scheduled for today\par
\bullet\ \b Pending Dispatch\b0  - Vehicles that need to be dispatched\par
\bullet\ \b On Trip\b0  - Vehicles currently out on trips\par
\bullet\ \b Completed\b0  - Finished trips for today\par
\par
\b Trip Information Display:\par
\b0\par
For each trip, you can see:\par
\bullet\ Request ID number\par
\bullet\ Scheduled departure and return times\par
\bullet\ Vehicle plate number, make, and model\par
\bullet\ Driver name and contact number\par
\bullet\ Destination\par
\bullet\ Current status (Pending, On Trip, Completed)\par
\bullet\ Dispatch and arrival times (if recorded)\par
\par
\b\fs24 4. RECORDING VEHICLE DISPATCH\par
\b0\fs20\par
When a vehicle is ready to leave for an approved trip:\par
\par
\b Step 1: Locate the Trip\par
\b0\par
1. Go to Guard Dashboard\par
2. Use the "Pending Dispatch" tab to see vehicles waiting to leave\par
3. Find the correct trip by checking:\par
    - Request ID number\par
    - Vehicle plate number\par
    - Driver name\par
    - Requester name\par
\par
\b Step 2: Open Dispatch Modal\par
\b0\par
Click the green "Dispatch" button for the trip. A form will appear showing:\par
\bullet\ Request details (ID, requester, destination)\par
\bullet\ Vehicle information\par
\bullet\ Driver information\par
\par
\b Step 3: Enter Dispatch Details\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Dispatch Time:\b0  Current time is pre-filled\par
    - Adjust if necessary (e.g., if recording after the fact)\par
    - Use the datetime picker for accuracy\par
\par
\bullet\ \b Notes (Optional):\b0  Add observations such as:\par
    - Vehicle condition before departure\par
    - Number of passengers\par
    - Any issues noted\par
    - Fuel level\par
    - Odometer reading\par
\par
\b Step 4: Confirm Dispatch\par
\b0\par
Click "Confirm Dispatch" to save. The system will:\par
\bullet\ Record the dispatch time\par
\bullet\ Mark the vehicle as "On Trip"\par
\bullet\ Update the trip status\par
\bullet\ Log your name as the dispatching guard\par
\par
\b Important Reminders:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Only dispatch vehicles for APPROVED trips\par
\bullet\ Verify the driver and vehicle match the trip details\par
\bullet\ Record the actual time, not scheduled time\par
\bullet\ Add notes about any unusual circumstances\par
\par
\b\fs24 5. RECORDING VEHICLE ARRIVAL\par
\b0\fs20\par
When a vehicle returns from a trip:\par
\par
\b Step 1: Locate the Trip\par
\b0\par
1. Go to Guard Dashboard\par
2. Click the "On Trip" tab\par
3. Find the returning vehicle by:\par
    - Vehicle plate number\par
    - Driver name\par
    - Original departure time\par
\par
\b Step 2: Open Arrival Modal\par
\b0\par
Click the blue "Arrival" button. The form shows:\par
\bullet\ Trip details\par
\bullet\ Vehicle and driver information\par
\bullet\ When the vehicle was dispatched\par
\par
\b Step 3: Enter Arrival Details\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Arrival Time:\b0  Current time is pre-filled\par
    - Adjust if recording after actual arrival\par
\par
\bullet\ \b Notes (Optional):\b0  Document:\par
    - Vehicle condition upon return\par
    - Any damage or issues observed\par
    - Fuel level\par
    - Final odometer reading\par
    - Any incidents during the trip\par
\par
\b Step 4: Confirm Arrival\par
\b0\par
Click "Confirm Arrival" to save. The system will:\par
\bullet\ Record the arrival time\par
\bullet\ Calculate trip duration\par
\bullet\ Mark the trip as Completed\par
\bullet\ Update vehicle status back to Available\par
\bullet\ Log your name as the receiving guard\par
\par
\b\fs24 6. VIEWING TRIP DETAILS\par
\b0\fs20\par
To view complete information about a trip:\par
\par
\b Option 1: View Button\par
\b0\par
Click the eye icon (View) button to open the full request details in a new tab. This shows:\par
\bullet\ Complete trip itinerary\par
\bullet\ Passenger list\par
\bullet\ Approval history\par
\bullet\ All recorded times\par
\par
\b Option 2: Print View\par
\b0\par
From the request view page, you can print a trip ticket for the driver.\par
\par
\b\fs24 7. MANAGING MULTIPLE TRIPS\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Handling Simultaneous Dispatches:\par
\b0\par
If multiple vehicles are leaving at the same time:\par
\bullet\ Dispatch them one by one\par
\bullet\ Verify each vehicle and driver\par
\bullet\ Record accurate times for each\par
\par
\b Late Arrivals:\par
\b0\par
If a vehicle hasn't returned by the scheduled time:\par
\bullet\ Check the "On Trip" tab\par
\bullet\ The system shows which vehicles are overdue\par
\bullet\ Contact the driver if necessary\par
\bullet\ Report significant delays to the Motorpool Head\par
\par
\b Recording Past Events:\par
\b0\par
If you need to record a dispatch or arrival that already happened:\par
\bullet\ Use the datetime picker to select the actual time\par
\bullet\ Add notes explaining the late recording\par
\bullet\ This maintains an accurate audit trail\par
\par
\b\fs24 8. FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Q: What if a vehicle leaves without being dispatched in the system?\par
\b0 A: Record the dispatch as soon as possible using the actual departure time. Add a note explaining the delay in recording.\par
\par
\b Q: Can I edit a dispatch or arrival time after recording?\par
\b0 A: No, times cannot be edited once saved. If there's an error, report it to the Motorpool Head for correction in the records.\par
\par
\b Q: What if the wrong driver or vehicle is assigned?\par
\b0 A: Do NOT dispatch. Contact the Motorpool Head immediately to correct the assignment.\par
\par
\b Q: How do I handle emergency or unscheduled trips?\par
\b0 A: Only dispatch vehicles with approved requests. For emergencies, the Motorpool Head must create an emergency request first.\par
\par
\b Q: What should I do if a vehicle returns with damage?\par
\b0 A: Document the damage thoroughly in the notes field. Take photos if possible. Inform the Motorpool Head immediately.\par
\par
\b Q: Can I see trips from previous days?\par
\b0 A: The dashboard shows today's trips by default. For historical records, contact the Motorpool Head or Administrator.\par
\par
\b Q: What if the driver is different from what's shown in the system?\par
\b0 A: Verify with the Motorpool Head before dispatching. The system should reflect the actual driver.\par
\par
\b\fs24 TROUBLESHOOTING\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Cannot see the Dispatch button:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ The trip may not be approved yet\par
\bullet\ The vehicle may have already been dispatched\par
\bullet\ Refresh your browser page\par
\par
\b Cannot see the Arrival button:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ The vehicle must be dispatched first\par
\bullet\ Check the "On Trip" tab for dispatched vehicles\par
\par
\b System is slow or not loading:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Check your internet connection\par
\bullet\ Try refreshing the page\par
\bullet\ Clear browser cache\par
\bullet\ Contact IT support if problem persists\par
\par
\par
\b\fs20 For Technical Support:\par
\b0 Contact your IT Department or System Administrator\par
\par
\b\fs16 Document Version: 1.0\par
\b0 Last Updated: February 2026\par
}
