{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial Baltic;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\0\blue255;\red0\0\blue0;\red0\128\0;\red255\0\0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\b\f0\fs28 LOKA Fleet Management System\par
\b0\fs24 User Guide for Requester\par
\par
\b\fs20 Department of Information and Communications Technology (DICT)\par
\b0\fs16\par
\par
\pard\qc\b\fs24 TABLE OF CONTENTS\par
\pard\fs20\par
1. Introduction\par
2. Getting Started\par
3. Dashboard Overview\par
4. Creating a Vehicle Request\par
5. Managing Your Requests\par
6. Viewing Vehicle Availability\par
7. Profile Management\par
8. Notifications\par
9. Frequently Asked Questions\par
\par
\b\fs24 1. INTRODUCTION\par
\b0\fs20\par
Welcome to LOKA Fleet Management System! As a Requester, you can submit vehicle reservation requests for official government trips. This guide will help you navigate the system and make the most of its features.\par
\par
\b What You Can Do:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Submit vehicle reservation requests\par
\bullet\ Track your request status in real-time\par
\bullet\ View vehicle availability calendar\par
\bullet\ Manage passenger lists for your trips\par
\bullet\ Receive notifications on request updates\par
\bullet\ Request specific drivers (optional)\par
\bullet\ Save approval workflows for faster submissions\par
\par
\b\fs24 2. GETTING STARTED\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Logging In:\par
\b0\par
1. Open your web browser and go to the LOKA Fleet Management URL\par
2. Enter your registered email address\par
3. Enter your password\par
4. Click "Login"\par
\par
\b First-Time Login:\par
\b0\par
If this is your first time logging in, you may be required to change your default password. Create a strong password with:\par
\bullet\ At least 8 characters\par
\bullet\ Mix of uppercase and lowercase letters\par
\bullet\ Numbers and special characters\par
\par
\b\fs24 3. DASHBOARD OVERVIEW\par
\b0\fs20\par
The dashboard provides a quick summary of your activities:\par
\par
\b Statistics Cards:\par
\b0\bullet\ \b My Requests\b0  - Total number of requests you've submitted\par
\bullet\ \b Available Vehicles\b0  - Vehicles currently available for booking\par
\bullet\ \b Available Drivers\b0  - Drivers currently available\par
\par
\b Upcoming Trips:\par
\b0 Shows your approved trips scheduled within the next 7 days.\par
\par
\b Recent Activity:\par
\b0 Displays your recent requests with their current status.\par
\par
\b\fs24 4. CREATING A VEHICLE REQUEST\par
\b0\fs20\par
To create a new vehicle request:\par
\par
\b Step 1: Navigate to New Request\par
\b0\par
Click "New Request" button on the dashboard or go to Requests > New Request\par
\par
\b Step 2: Fill in Trip Details\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Start Date/Time\b0  - When you need the vehicle (required)\par
\bullet\ \b End Date/Time\b0  - When you expect to return (required)\par
\bullet\ \b Purpose\b0  - Describe the reason for the trip (required)\par
\bullet\ \b Destinations\b0  - Add locations in sequential order (required)\par
    - Click "Add Another Location" for multiple stops\par
    - The system will combine them with arrows (\b->\b0)\par
\par
\b Step 3: Add Passengers\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ You are automatically included as a passenger\par
\bullet\ Click "Add / Manage" to open the passenger selection window\par
\bullet\ \b Search Employees:\b0  Type to find colleagues by name, email, or department\par
\bullet\ \b Add Guests:\b0  Enter names of non-employees joining the trip\par
\bullet\ The passenger count includes you as the requester\par
\par
\b Step 4: Select Vehicle\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Choose from available vehicles in the dropdown\par
\bullet\ Each vehicle shows:\par
    - Plate number\par
    - Make and model\par
    - Vehicle type (e.g., Sedan, SUV, Van)\par
    - Passenger capacity\par
\bullet\ \b Important:\b0  Make sure passenger count doesn't exceed vehicle capacity\par
\par
\b Step 5: Requested Driver (Optional)\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ You may request a specific driver\par
\bullet\ Motorpool Head will confirm availability\par
\bullet\ If no preference, leave as "No preference"\par
\par
\b Step 6: Select Approval Workflow\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Department Approver:\b0  Choose your department's approver (required)\par
\bullet\ \b Motorpool Head:\b0  Select the motorpool head for vehicle assignment (required)\par
\bullet\ \b Save Workflow:\b0  Check "Save this workflow" to reuse these approvers\par
    - Enter a name (e.g., "Default", "Project X")\par
    - Check "Set as default" to auto-load next time\par
\par
\b Step 7: Submit\par
\b0\par
Review all details and click "Submit Request"\par
\par
\b\fs24 5. MANAGING YOUR REQUESTS\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Viewing Your Requests:\par
\b0\par
Go to Requests menu to see all your submissions. Each request shows:\par
\bullet\ Request ID number\par
\bullet\ Date and time of trip\par
\bullet\ Purpose and destination\par
\bullet\ Assigned vehicle (if approved)\par
\bullet\ Current status\par
\bullet\ Stage in approval process\par
\par
\b Request Statuses:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Draft\b0  - Request not yet submitted\par
\bullet\ \b Pending\b0  - Awaiting department approver's action\par
\bullet\ \b Pending Motorpool\b0  - Approved by department, awaiting motorpool assignment\par
\bullet\ \b Approved\b0  - Fully approved with vehicle and driver assigned\par
\bullet\ \b For Revision\b0  - Sent back for corrections (requires your action)\par
\bullet\ \b Rejected\b0  - Request denied\par
\bullet\ \b Cancelled\b0  - Request cancelled\par
\bullet\ \b Completed\b0  - Trip finished\par
\par
\b Editing a Request:\par
\b0\par
You can edit requests that are:\par
\bullet\ In Draft status\par
\bullet\ Pending approval\par
\bullet\ Returned for revision\par
\par
Click the edit (pencil) icon to modify.\par
\par
\b Cancelling a Request:\par
\b0\par
To cancel a pending request:\par
1. Click the cancel (X) icon\par
2. Confirm the cancellation\par
3. Notifications will be sent to approvers\par
\par
\b Handling Revision Requests:\par
\b0\par
If your request is sent back for revision:\par
1. A warning banner will appear on your Requests page\par
2. Click "Edit Request" to make necessary changes\par
3. Resubmit after corrections\par
\par
\b\fs24 6. VIEWING VEHICLE AVAILABILITY\par
\b0\fs20\par
The Availability Calendar shows when vehicles are free or booked:\par
\par
\bullet\ Go to Schedule > Availability\par
\bullet\ Click on any date to see scheduled trips\par
\bullet\ Green = Available, Blue = Booked, Orange = Maintenance\par
\bullet\ Use this to plan your trip dates\par
\par
\b\fs24 7. PROFILE MANAGEMENT\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Viewing Your Profile:\par
\b0\par
Click your name in the top-right corner and select Profile.\par
\par
\b Changing Your Password:\par
\b0\par
1. Go to Profile page\par
2. Enter your current password\par
3. Enter and confirm your new password\par
4. Click "Update Password"\par
\par
\b Updating Contact Information:\par
\b0\par
Contact your system administrator if you need to update your:\par
\bullet\ Email address\par
\bullet\ Department\par
\bullet\ Phone number\par
\par
\b\fs24 8. NOTIFICATIONS\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b In-App Notifications:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Click the bell icon in the header to view notifications\par
\bullet\ A badge shows the number of unread notifications\par
\bullet\ Click any notification to view the related request\par
\par
\b Email Notifications:\par
\b0\par
You will receive email alerts when:\par
\bullet\ Your request is submitted successfully\par
\bullet\ Your request is approved\par
\bullet\ Your request is rejected\par
\bullet\ Your request needs revision\par
\bullet\ You're added as a passenger to a trip\par
\par
\b\fs24 9. FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Q: How far in advance should I submit a request?\par
\b0 A: Submit requests at least 2-3 working days before your trip to allow time for approvals.\par
\par
\b Q: Can I request a specific vehicle?\par
\b0 A: Yes, select your preferred vehicle from the dropdown. The Motorpool Head will confirm availability.\par
\par
\b Q: What if I need to change my trip details after submission?\par
\b0 A: If still pending, you can edit the request. If already approved, contact the Motorpool Head directly.\par
\par
\b Q: What happens if my request is rejected?\par
\b0 A: Check the reason provided by the approver. You may submit a new request addressing the concerns.\par
\par
\b Q: Can I add passengers who are not employees?\par
\b0 A: Yes, use the "Add Guest" feature in the passenger management window.\par
\par
\b Q: How do I know if a driver has been assigned?\par
\b0 A: View your approved request details. The assigned driver will be shown.\par
\par
\par
\b\fs20 For Technical Support:\par
\b0 Contact your IT Department or System Administrator\par
\par
\b\fs16 Document Version: 1.0\par
\b0 Last Updated: February 2026\par
}
