{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial Baltic;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\0\blue255;\red0\0\blue0;\red0\128\0;\red255\0\0;\red255\128\0;\red128\0\128;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\b\f0\fs28 LOKA Fleet Management System\par
\b0\fs24 User Guide for Approver\par
\par
\b\fs20 Department of Information and Communications Technology (DICT)\par
\b0\fs16\par
\par
\pard\qc\b\fs24 TABLE OF CONTENTS\par
\pard\fs20\par
1. Introduction\par
2. Getting Started\par
3. Dashboard Overview\par
4. Approval Queue\par
5. Reviewing a Request\par
6. Approval Actions\par
7. Managing Vehicles\par
8. Managing Drivers\par
9. Reports\par
10. Frequently Asked Questions\par
\par
\b\fs24 1. INTRODUCTION\par
\b0\fs20\par
Welcome to LOKA Fleet Management System! As an Approver, you are responsible for reviewing and approving vehicle reservation requests submitted by employees in your department. Your role is crucial in ensuring that government resources are used efficiently and appropriately.\par
\par
\b Your Responsibilities:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Review vehicle reservation requests from your department\par
\bullet\ Approve, reject, or request revisions for requests\par
\bullet\ Ensure trips align with official government business\par
\bullet\ Verify trip details are complete and reasonable\par
\bullet\ View and manage vehicles and drivers\par
\bullet\ Generate reports on fleet usage\par
\par
\b Your Access Level:\par
\b0\par
As an Approver (Level 3), you can:\par
\bullet\ Access the Approval Queue\par
\bullet\ View and manage Vehicles\par
\bullet\ View and manage Drivers\par
\bullet\ View Maintenance records\par
\bullet\ Generate Reports\par
\bullet\ Submit your own vehicle requests\par
\par
\b\fs24 2. GETTING STARTED\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Logging In:\par
\b0\par
1. Open your web browser and go to the LOKA Fleet Management URL\par
2. Enter your registered email address\par
3. Enter your password\par
4. Click "Login"\par
\par
\b Navigation Menu:\par
\b0\par
The sidebar contains:\par
\bullet\ \b Dashboard\b0  - Overview and statistics\par
\bullet\ \b Requests\b0  - Your own vehicle requests\par
\bullet\ \b Availability\b0  - Vehicle schedule calendar\par
\bullet\ \b Approvals\b0  - Queue of requests awaiting your action\par
\bullet\ \b Vehicles\b0  - Fleet inventory management\par
\bullet\ \b Drivers\b0  - Driver management\par
\bullet\ \b Maintenance\b0  - Vehicle maintenance records\par
\bullet\ \b Reports\b0  - Fleet usage reports\par
\par
\b\fs24 3. DASHBOARD OVERVIEW\par
\b0\fs20\par
The dashboard shows:\par
\par
\b Statistics Cards:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b My Requests\b0  - Your submitted requests count\par
\bullet\ \b Pending Approvals\b0  - Requests awaiting your action (highlighted in yellow)\par
\bullet\ \b Available Vehicles\b0  - Currently available fleet\par
\bullet\ \b Available Drivers\b0  - Drivers ready for assignment\par
\par
\b Pending Approval Alert:\par
\b0\par
If you have pending approvals, a badge appears on the Approvals menu item showing the count.\par
\par
\b\fs24 4. APPROVAL QUEUE\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Accessing the Queue:\par
\b0\par
Click "Approvals" in the sidebar to view your approval queue.\par
\par
\b Queue Tabs:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Pending\b0  - Requests awaiting your action\par
    - Shows badge count of pending items\par
    - New/unviewed requests are highlighted\par
\bullet\ \b Processed\b0  - Requests you've already acted on\par
    - Shows your approval or rejection\par
    - Displays the final status\par
\par
\b Understanding Request Information:\par
\b0\par
Each request displays:\par
\bullet\ Request ID number\par
\bullet\ Requester name and department\par
\bullet\ Trip purpose (truncated)\par
\bullet\ Date and time of trip\par
\bullet\ Current stage status\par
\bullet\ Submission date\par
\par
\b NEW Badge:\par
\b0\par
Requests you haven't viewed yet show a "NEW" badge. After you open a request, it's marked as viewed.\par
\par
\b Stage Status:\par
\b0\par
Shows where the request is in the approval workflow:\par
\bullet\ \b Dept - Pending\b0  - Waiting for department approval (your action needed)\par
\bullet\ \b MP - Pending\b0  - Waiting for motorpool approval\par
\bullet\ \b Revision\b0  - Sent back for requester to update\par
\par
\b\fs24 5. REVIEWING A REQUEST\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Opening a Request:\par
\b0\par
Click the "Review" button on any pending request to view full details.\par
\par
\b Request Details Include:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Trip Information:\b0\par
    - Start and end date/time\par
    - Purpose of the trip\par
    - Destinations (multiple stops shown)\par
    - Passenger count\par
\par
\bullet\ \b Vehicle Information:\b0\par
    - Requested vehicle (type, plate, capacity)\par
    - Vehicle availability status\par
\par
\bullet\ \b Driver Information:\b0\par
    - Requested driver (if any)\par
    - Driver availability\par
\par
\bullet\ \b Passenger List:\b0\par
    - Names of all passengers\par
    - Employee status (employee or guest)\par
\par
\bullet\ \b Approval Workflow:\b0\par
    - Department approver (you or colleague)\par
    - Motorpool head assigned\par
\par
\bullet\ \b Supporting Documents:\b0\par
    - Any attached files or notes\par
\par
\b What to Check:\par
\b0\par
Before making a decision, verify:\par
\bullet\ Is this an official government function?\par
\bullet\ Are the dates and times reasonable?\par
\bullet\ Is the destination correct and appropriate?\par
\bullet\ Is the vehicle type appropriate for the trip?\par
\bullet\ Are the passengers relevant to the trip purpose?\par
\bullet\ Does the purpose justify the use of government vehicle?\par
\par
\b\fs24 6. APPROVAL ACTIONS\par
\b0\fs20\par
After reviewing, you have three options:\par
\par
\b APPROVE:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Click the green "Approve" button\par
\bullet\ Add optional comments (recommended for transparency)\par
\bullet\ Confirm your approval\par
\bullet\ The request automatically moves to Motorpool Head for final approval\par
\bullet\ The requester receives a notification\par
\par
\b REJECT:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Click the red "Reject" button\par
\bullet\ \b You MUST provide a reason\b0  for rejection\par
\bullet\ Be specific and constructive\par
\bullet\ The requester will be notified with your reason\par
\par
\b Request REVISION:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Click the orange "Request Revision" button\par
\bullet\ Explain what needs to be corrected\par
\bullet\ The request goes back to the requester for editing\par
\bullet\ After correction, it returns to your queue\par
\par
\b Use Revision When:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Trip details need correction\par
\bullet\ Wrong vehicle selected\par
\bullet\ Passenger list needs updating\par
\bullet\ Additional information needed\par
\bullet\ Minor issues that can be fixed\par
\par
\b Use Reject When:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Trip is not for official business\par
\bullet\ Insufficient justification\par
\bullet\ Major issues that cannot be corrected\par
\bullet\ Request violates policies\par
\par
\b\fs24 7. MANAGING VEHICLES\par
\b0\fs20\par
As an Approver, you can view and manage the vehicle fleet.\par
\par
\b Viewing Vehicles:\par
\b0\par
1. Go to Vehicles from the sidebar\par
2. See all vehicles with their status, type, capacity, and mileage\par
\par
\b Filtering Vehicles:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Filter by Status: Available, In Use, Maintenance, Out of Service\par
\bullet\ Filter by Type: Sedan, SUV, Van, etc.\par
\par
\b Adding a Vehicle:\par
\b0\par
1. Click "Add Vehicle"\par
2. Enter vehicle details:\par
    - Plate number (unique)\par
    - Make, Model, Year, Color\par
    - Vehicle type (determines capacity)\par
    - Initial mileage\par
3. Save the vehicle\par
\par
\b Editing Vehicle Information:\par
\b0\par
1. Click the edit (pencil) icon\par
2. Update the details\par
3. Save changes\par
\par
\b Vehicle Statuses:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Available\b0  - Ready for assignment\par
\bullet\ \b In Use\b0  - Currently on a trip\par
\bullet\ \b Maintenance\b0  - Under repair or service\par
\bullet\ \b Out of Service\b0  - Not available for use\par
\par
\b\fs24 8. MANAGING DRIVERS\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Viewing Drivers:\par
\b0\par
1. Go to Drivers from the sidebar\par
2. See all registered drivers with their status and contact info\par
\par
\b Driver Information:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ Driver name and contact number\par
\bullet\ License number and expiration\par
\bullet\ Current status\par
\bullet\ Assigned vehicle (if any)\par
\par
\b Driver Statuses:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Available\b0  - Ready for trip assignment\par
\bullet\ \b On Trip\b0  - Currently driving\par
\bullet\ \b On Leave\b0  - Not available temporarily\par
\bullet\ \b Unavailable\b0  - Cannot be assigned\par
\par
\b\fs24 9. REPORTS\par
\b0\fs20\par
Access various reports from the Reports menu:\par
\par
\b Available Reports:\par
\b0\par
\bullet\ \b Trip Reports\b0  - History of all completed trips\par
\bullet\ \b Vehicle Reports\b0  - Usage statistics per vehicle\par
\bullet\ \b Driver Reports\b0  - Driver trip history and performance\par
\bullet\ \b Department Reports\b0  - Usage by department\par
\par
\b Exporting Reports:\par
\b0\par
Reports can be exported in:\par
\bullet\ PDF format (for printing and archiving)\par
\bullet\ CSV format (for spreadsheet analysis)\par
\par
\b\fs24 10. FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS\par
\b0\fs20\par
\b Q: What happens after I approve a request?\par
\b0 A: The request moves to the Motorpool Head for vehicle and driver assignment. You'll receive notification when it's fully approved.\par
\par
\b Q: Can I approve my own vehicle request?\par
\b0 A: No, self-approval is not allowed. Your request will be assigned to another approver.\par
\par
\b Q: What if I accidentally approve the wrong request?\par
\b0 A: Contact the Motorpool Head immediately. They can return the request to your queue for correction.\par
\par
\b Q: How do I handle urgent requests submitted late?\par
\b0 A: Review them promptly. If justified, approve with a note about urgency. If not justified, request revision or reject.\par
\par
\b Q: Can I see the full approval history of a request?\par
\b0 A: Yes, open the request details and scroll to the approval history section.\par
\par
\b Q: What if a requester needs to change details after I approve?\par
\b0 A: The request can only be modified before your approval. After approval, contact Motorpool Head.\par
\par
\b Q: How do I handle requests from other departments?\par
\b0 A: You only see requests where you are assigned as the approver. Each department has designated approvers.\par
\par
\par
\b\fs20 For Technical Support:\par
\b0 Contact your IT Department or System Administrator\par
\par
\b\fs16 Document Version: 1.0\par
\b0 Last Updated: February 2026\par
}
